# IA_651_PierceWarburton_FinalProject

The dataset examined in this project was of squirrel observations, done by volunteers, in Central Park during 2018. It is publicly available on NYCOpenData's website and can be accessed [here](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Environment/2018-Central-Park-Squirrel-Census-Squirrel-Data/vfnx-vebw/about_data).
The data has 3023 unique observations each one describing a single squirrel's appearance, location, and general behavior. A single observation will have anywhere between 22 and 31 features accompanying it. The variability is due to different volunteers omitting to add various features to their logged observation, a mistake that can be hardly rectified in post. The purpose of this project however was to predict a squirrels location (on the ground or in a tree) through the observations of their behavior. While seemingly niche this analysis could serve to help both amatuer and professional individuals interested in squirrels better understand when they choose to act in certain ways and how the safety of trees vs the dangers of ground influence their activities 

The first step of the analysis was manipulating the data for later ingestion into various algorithms. The variable of interest as stated above was Location which was given as either "Ground Plane" or "Above Ground". This was changed to 0 and 1 respectively. The predictor variables were then choosen and added to a seperate dataset along with the augmented Location variable. The predictor variables were, with some exceptions, all the behavior features. Climbing and Foraging were discarded given both their obvious baised to ground or tree and the  
